So when this sound occurred, a crowd gathered and was bewildered because each one heard them speaking in his own language.
When I was young, two sisters came to my door and taught me God's name.
I didn't really get the sense of it. To understand, I used to sign the words in the publications, but the message never touched my heart.
When I would attend church, I only had an English Bible to read. There was no ASL Bible, and I didn't understand the English.
I prayed for the Bible in my language, but I never thought it would happen.
Those taking the lead among Jehovah's Witnesses decided the Bible should be translated for smaller language groups.
We were thrilled. Does that include sign language? Yes, go ahead with it.
On October 26, 2004, approval was given to begin work on the translation of the Christian Greek scriptures into American sign language.
We are thrilled to announce that the translation of the Christian Greek scriptures into ASL is now underway.
The New World Translation in ASL was released incrementally, starting with Matthew.
Wow. At first, I was in a state of shock. I never thought that Jehovah God would allow his holy word, his glorious word,
to be translated into ASL. Such undeserved kindness.
When it hit me that they were going to translate all the Christian Greek scriptures with each verse,
beginning from Matthew 1, 1, 1, 2, and so forth, I was absolutely stunned. I went to the restroom and cried and thanked Jehovah.
When I got home, I cried so much. I couldn't even see the video. I got up at 4am the next morning and I ran to watch it, but I started crying again.
I sobbed all week. When I finally watched it, I thanked Jehovah.
Without a doubt, Jehovah has not forgotten us, deaf people. Look at all the spiritual food he is providing.
For that reason, we should really appreciate and take advantage of these provisions.
Well, we want to mention something to you. Something very special.
You see, the team has been working on translating the Bible and the sign language for 15 years.
And today, this means, with the release of the Book of Job, the whole New World translation is now completed.
As far as we know, Jehovah's Witnesses are the first organizational group of persons to release the complete Bible into ASL.
Here in Fort Lauderdale, we have our team that works on translating the Bible and other publications from English to ASL.
There are typically three people on a translation team. One will focus on generating translation ideas.
Another focuses on the accuracy of the translation and the third person will watch to make sure the signing is natural and easy to understand.
First, we are given the text in English. As we read it, we carefully analyze the message and give thought to the theme of the text.
After analyzing the text, the three members of the team get together for a project meeting to discuss any challenges and to make sure all are on the same page.
The ASL Bible team was the first to use a live review panel. The panel would look at the Bible books and give immediate feedback to the team and that feedback was incorporated to make the final product far superior.
The translation is further refined. Once it is finalized, then the team goes to the studio to record.
When deaf people watch the ASL version of the New World Translation, they can have complete confidence. It is accurate and trustworthy.
Now, in the ministry, when I show the scriptures in ASL, I can see the reaction of the people really getting the sense of it. And I think, Oh, Jehovah, you're amazing.
My confidence has greatly increased. Before the New World Translation was available in ASL, I was nervous preaching. I wasn't sure what to say. We only had a few translated scriptures. If asked a question, I was at a loss.
The ASL Bible project set a pattern for other sign languages and now we have parts of the Bible available in 17 sign languages with more on the way.
Now that the Bible is available in sign language, we know, with out of doubt, Jehovah wants people of all nations, backgrounds and languages to know him.
To know his ways, his name, his purpose for the future. He wants everyone to know him.